# ComScripts
ComScripts: Validation of CoM dataset 2019

The procedure to verify and improve the coherence of the dataset starts with the extraction of complete emission inventories stored in a PostgreSQL database. At the closing date of this study, (September 2019) 6,239 climate action plans with complete inventories had been submitted by cities in the EU27, EFTA countries and UK, Western Balkans, Eastern and Southern EU neighbourhoods. Inventories and other data are self-reported to the online platform and must accurately reflect the content of the official climate action plan %(SECAP) document. The SECAP document is a separated file, usually in PDF format and publicly available that represents the official action plan endorsed and signed by the local council.

The CoM dataset analysis

In this section we describe the automatic routine implemented to detect and treat the outliers in inventories from small medium towns (5538)
The procedure starts with dividing the data into two groups based on the normalization process: the activity data in the residential/municipal/institutional/tertiary buildings and transport sector and Waste were normalised with the population size, whereas the activity data in manufacturing and construction industries were normalised with the GDP values. he method is based on a generalised ESD (extreme studentized deviate) procedure for the detection of abnormal energy consumptions. The procedure starts considering the data set of GHG emissions per capita. The mean, the standard deviation, the skewness (the second, the third moment about the mean) are calculated at the beginning for each set of data. To conclude, also a non-parametric statistical procedure, i.e. the Median Absolute Deviation (MAD), % has been applied to identify outliers in dataset that are non normal distributed. This method is more robust than the ESD, but less efficient, and its validity increases as data approach normal distribution. Similarly to the ESD, the choice of the critical value is motivated by the reasoning that if the observations other than outliers have an approximately normal distribution, it picks up as an outlier any observations more than about three standard deviations from the means

Validation of CoM dataset 2019 wth EDGAR

Matching reported emissions with cities’ ancillary data enables an additional robustness check of the accuracy of inventories. The uncertainty of reported emissions is particularly difficult to estimate since non-formal uncertainty analysis is applied by cities on the activity data and the emission factors. Hence, given this limitation, we argue that the best practical way to assess the uncertainty is a detailed comparison against international dataset such as EDGAR. A similar approach has been applied to validate cities emission data in United States.
EDGAR provides past and present global anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants by country on a spatial grid 23. The methods used in EDGAR downscale the emissions from a national or subnational scale to finer scales using spatial proxies and present results in gridded maps. EDGAR combines several proxies ranging from population density to specific point source location maps for estimating emissions of different economic sectors. The potential use of EDGAR gridded data for the examination of emission in large sample of cities worldwide has been already noticed in literature.
Using ArcGIS, we overlaid the LAU urban spatial boundaries onto the EDGAR emissions grids. We then used the built-in Spatial Zonal Statistics tool to estimate total emissions for each urban area for two source categories: energy in buildings (RCO) and road transportation. EDGAR includes emissions from a variety of sources at the aggregate level of at least 0.1° spatial resolution (representing about 10 x 10 km2 at the equator). Here we use the EDGAR global grids of estimated emissions in metric tons for the year 2005 for the most prevalent GHGs: carbon dioxide excluding short cycle organic carbon (i.e. CO2_excl_short-cycle_org_C). Emissions of CO2_excl_short-cycle_org_C include all fossil CO2 (such as fossil fuel combustion) and exclude all sources and sinks from land-use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) 23. Overall, we compared data from 1945 signatories from EU27 + UK countries with EDGAR corresponding data on direct emissions in Energy in Buildings sector and road transportation

